today we will talk about the designing
of combinational logic circuits we will
try to differentiate between static CMOS
circuits and dynamic CMOS circuits
I am dr. Imran Khan for more videos and
technology updates please subscribe our
channel if you have any question related
to our video please don't hesitate to
contact me
combination of verses sequential logic
in combinational logic circuits output
is dependent only on the previous inputs
output is the function of previous
inputs only while in the sequential
logic circuit output is dependent not
only on the previous inputs but also the
states of energy storage elements so the
output is the function of inputs and
previous inputs these previous inputs
are the states of these state storage
elements like flip-flop latches and
registers so in sequential logic
circuits the state storage elements like
flip-flop latches and registers are
involved static CMOS circuits at every
point in time each gate gate output is
connected to either VDD or VSS via a law
resistor path the outputs of gate
assumes all the time the value of
boolean function implemented by the
circuit is Norrell once again the
transient effect during switching
periods in static CMOS circuits either
there is no or negligible power
consumption in static CMOS circuits
there are large noise margins to
implement n number of inputs in static
CMOS circuits we need to n number of
transistors suppose if we have two
inputs we will require four transistor
to implement this function and suppose
we have five inputs we will require 10
transistor to implement
the function so this is the standard
procedure to implement static compliment
to receive all circuits so this P 1 is
the pull-up network PD and his pulldown
network so these are inputs and here is
the output this is VDD and this is
ground
so in pull-up network we will use p MOS
transistors only in pulldown network we
will use n MOS transistors only pull-up
network and pulldown network are the
dual logic networks so in pull-up
network we will use p MOS transistors
only so here you can see this is the
pull-up network and we have connected
this p MOS transistor with with VT d and
this p MOS transistor is connecting VDD
to this output capacitor C L so when we
apply low gate voltage this transistor
will turn on and it will connect this
VDD to this output capacitor and it will
charge that this output capacitor from 0
to VDD and suppose if we connect n MOS
transistor in the pole op network then
what will happen it will charge the
output capacitor from VDD to VDD minus V
from 0 to VDD minus VT 10 so you can see
that there is the voltage drop of 1 ppm
so this VT n is the threshold voltage
for N Mo's transistor so that's why we
use P Mo's transistor only in the
pull-up network similarly in the
pulldown network we use n Mo's
transistors so you can see so when we
connect
this gate voltage too high signal this
NMOS transistor will turn on and it will
discharge this output capacitor from VDD
to 0 but when we will connect this PMO's
transistor so you can see still 1
threshold voltage will left in this
capacitor so these P Mo's transistors
pause strong ones and weak zeros and n
Mo's transistors pause strong zeros and
weak ones so this is the reason that we
use P Mo's transistor in the pull-up
network and n MOS transistors in the
pulldown network so here is the C switch
we can use we can use C switch to that
strong 0 and strong one at the same time
so here you can see this is the block
level diagram and this is the circuit
level diagram of a C switch so in this
diagram we have connected a P MOS
transistor and n Mo's transistor to
implement our C switch the CC switch can
pause good 0 or good one at the same
time so let's discuss about the
implementation of this complex function
so here you can see this is the output
and how we want to implement this
function a b + C D Prime so first of all
we will start construction of our
pulldown network a B or in series so
here you can see in the pulldown network
they are in series similarly C and D are
in series so you can see C and D are in
series and a B combination and CD
combination they are in parallel to each
other so you can see a B and C D
combination is parallel to each other in
the pulldown network so in the pulldown
network we have used only n Mo's
transistors
so similarly in the pull-up Network this
a a B bar in series in pulldown network
they will come in parallel so here you
can see a and B are in parallel but with
P Mo's transistors similarly C and D
were in series in pulldown network and
in pull-up Network they will come in
parallel so here you can see they're in
parallel so similarly this whole
combination is in series this a B and C
D now they are in series in the pull-up
network so here you can connect this VD
D and here you can connect the ground so
here you can get the output so this is
the standard procedure of implementation
of any complex combinational circuit so
this is the transistor level diagram and
this is the block level diagram so let
us discuss another example suppose we
want to implement this function a B plus
C into the whole prime so you can see
that first of all we will start
construction of our pulldown network and
we will use n Mo's transistors here so a
B and C are in parallel so you can see
here and this whole combination is in
series with T in the pulldown network so
similarly in the Polak Network a B and C
will come in series and this whole
combination will come in parallel with D
transistor so here you can see we have
used n Mo's transistor in our pulldown
network and P Mo's transistor in our
whole op network so here we can discuss
another example suppose we have this
function D plus a into BC whole prime so
we want to implement this function so
let's start with pulldown network first
so B and C now you can see B and C they
are in parallel so you can see here in
the pulldown network they are in
parallel and
this bc combination is in series with
transistor a so here you can see a
transistor is in series with the
combination of DC and then now this
whole combination is in parallel with t
so you can see this whole combination is
in parallel with transistor T so we have
used n Mo's transistor in our pulldown
network so here you can get the output
and so this is your pull-up network so
now you can see B and C transistors were
in parallel in pulldown network but in
pull-up Network they will come in series
so similarly this a transistor was in
series with the combination of VC now it
will come in parallel but with P Mo's
transistor in pull-up Network so
similarly this tree D transistor is in
series with this whole combination so we
have used n Mo's transistor in or
pulldown network and P Mo's transistor
in our pull-up network so here you can
connect to the VDD and here you guy will
connect ground and from here you can get
your output so this is the standard
procedure of implementation of any
static CMOS circuit so here you can see
we have basically four inputs here and
we need eight number of transistors to
implement this function so now you can
see that for n input we need 2 n number
of transistors to implement static CMOS
functions so let's discuss the
multiplexer so multiplexer in
multiplexer we can basically select
several input line to a single output
line so this is the standard diagram of
our multiplexer block level diagram so
this is the slack line these are input
and this is output so you can see there
are several inputs but only one output
so multi what multiplexer do it select
one input line to single output line so
we can have several inputs but only one
output so it will basically select one
input for the output so here you can see
we can implement this multiplexer by
using these see switches so here you can
see this is we have used to see switches
to implement our simple multiplexer so
this is 2 into 1 multiplexer so dynamic
CMOS in static circuit at every point in
time the output is connected to either
ground or VDD by a load resistor path so
we need to n number of transistors to
implement n number of inputs so n
basically this n n type and n type so
suppose we have two inputs here then we
will need two n-type and two p-type
transistors to implement this function
so basically for the two inputs we need
four transistor and suppose we have five
inputs then we will require 10
transistors to implement the function so
in dynamic circuits basically what will
happen we will require only n plus two
transistors ok so suppose we have five
inputs then we will require saml
transistors to implement this function
so the number of transistors produced in
the
dynamic CMOS so for efficient designing
we need to keep less number of
transistors so this is one example of
dynamic gate so this is the standard
procedure so here you can see we have
used this P MOS transistor as this is
the called the pre-charge and here we
have used this n MOS transistor for
evaluate function so here is your p DN
pulldown network and this is the output
capacitor so these are the inputs so to
implement our function we will require
only this PD N or pulldown network so
this is basically the clock so here we
have used this two transistor 1 P MOS
and one n Mo's forever recharge and the
value 8 function so what will happen
when the clock will be 0 this transistor
will turn on and this term transistor
will turn off and it will pre charge the
output and then the clock will be 1 it
will turn off and it will turn on and
your output capacitor will discharge
this way so this is the standard
procedure of implementation of dynamic
logic so here you can see we have you
can see we have this function here a B
plus C Prime so here you can see maybe a
are in series and this a B combination
is in parallel with transistor C so this
is here you can see this is the scenario
and this is your pre charge and this is
the value of transistor
so you now you can see now we have three
inputs and we require five transistors
basically n plus two transistor
transistors to implement the function so
compared to static CMOS circuits the
number of transistors is reduced in the
dynamic CMOS logic so conditions on the
output once the output of a dynamic it
is discharged it cannot be charged again
until the next recharge operation inputs
through the gate can meet at most one
transition during in the evaluation
output can be in high impedance state
during and after evaluation and your
hold on network of state is stored on CL
capacitor so logic function is
implemented by polled on network only so
for n number of inputs we need n plus
two transistors to implement the
function in our dynamic CMOS logic so in
dynamic CMOS logic we have full-swing
outputs from ground to VDD so these
dynamic gates are non ratioed it means
that the sizing of the devices it does
not affect the logic levels so dynamic
gates are faster in switching speeds
obviously the power dissipation in
dynamic CMOS logic is higher than the
static CMOS so and also we need a pre
charge and evaluate clock in our dynamic
gates so this was the lecture for today
and please if you have any question
please don't has
to contact me so thank you very much for
today see you next time